RAC-237: add test and extract documentation (#12898)
akeneo/pim-community-dev: akeneo-design-system/BUILD_INFRASTRUCTURE.md

# Build infrastructure

## Introduction

> When we started to work on the DSM we set a goal to ourself to make it as easy as possible to contribute to it. We think that developer adoption will depend a lot on how easy it will be to contribute to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When we started to work on the DSM we set a goal to ourselves to make it as easy as possible to contribute to it. We think that developer adoption will depend a lot on how easy it will be to contribute to it.
```

> When we started to work on the DSM we set a goal to ourself to make it as easy as possible to contribute to it. We think that developer adoption will depend a lot on how easy it will be to contribute to it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When we started to work on the DSM we set a goal for ourselves to make it as easy as possible to contribute to it. We think that developer adoption will depend a lot on how easy contribution is made possible.
```

> One of the main painpoint when contributing is often not related to the code changes themself but more about things arround it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the main pain point when contributing is often not related to the code changes themself but more about things around it:
```

> One of the main painpoint when contributing is often not related to the code changes themself but more about things arround it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the main pain point when contributing is often not related to the code changes themselves but more about things around it:
```

- running tests
- review the changes
- build the project
- publish it

> - ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> In this document we will exlain how we automated those tasks to empower you to maintain and improve the system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this document we will exlain how we automated those tasks to empower anybody wishing to maintain and improve the system.
```

## On change request

> When you add new component or improve an existing one, we want to make sure that everything will work in production. To do so we have different gatekeepers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When adding a new component or improving an existing one, we want to make sure that everything will work in production. To do so we have different gatekeepers:
```

> When you add new component or improve an existing one, we want to make sure that everything will work in production. To do so we have different gatekeepers:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you add a new component or improve an existing one, we want to make sure that everything will work in production. To do so we have different gatekeepers:
```

> - Unit tests launched by jest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Unit tests launched by Jest
```

> - Visual regression test using puppeteer and jest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Visual regression tests using puppeteer and jest
```

- Lint validation done by eslint and prettier

### Workflow

> All those tests are launched by the github action located in the [.github/workflows/dsm-test.yml](https://github.com/akeneo/pim-community-dev/blob/master/.github/workflows/dsm-test.yml) file on the pim-community-dev repository. We will go over the important steps of this document but if you want to dive deeper, you can read it as it's self documented

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All those tests are launched by the github action located in the [.github/workflows/dsm-test.yml](https://github.com/akeneo/pim-community-dev/blob/master/.github/workflows/dsm-test.yml) file on the pim-community-dev repository. We will go over the important steps of this document but if you want to dive deeper, you can read it as it's self-documented.
```

> This workflow launches on every pull requests targeting master with file modifications on the `akeneo-design-system` folder.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This workflow launches on every pull requests targeting master with file modifications happening in the `akeneo-design-system` folder.
```

> We start by preparing the build environments (checout branch, node version), generate a bummy component to test it and then launch all tests suits (lint, unit and visual regression tests). We then build the example integration project to check that the lib works well in a "real" project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We start by preparing the build environments (checkout branch, node version), generate a Dummy component to test it and then launch all test suites (lint, unit and visual regression tests). We then build the example integration project to check that the lib works well in a "real" project.
```

> We start by preparing the build environments (checout branch, node version), generate a bummy component to test it and then launch all tests suits (lint, unit and visual regression tests). We then build the example integration project to check that the lib works well in a "real" project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We start by preparing the build environments (checkout branch, node version), generate a dummy component to test it and then launch all test suites (lint, unit and visual regression tests). We then build the example integration project to check that the lib works well in a "real" project.
```
instead of "real" project why not: works well in our products in production ?

### The visual regression problem

Visual regression tests are a complicated subject: checking that a component is rendering exactly the same as before on multiple OS is complicated. As every system renders fonts differently (even between version of the same system), it was impossible to run them locally.

> To fix this problem we decided to only check them on the CI and ease the way to update them by automate the process:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To fix this problem we decided to only check them on the CI and ease the way to update them by automating the process:
```

- On pull request, if a visual regression test is failing

> - We launch the tests again to update them

Reviewer 2: We could add a link to know more about snapshot testing here ? Like this one ? https://jestjs.io/docs/en/snapshot-testing (I know this is not we are we doing, but at least they get to read more about what is a snapshot, what's the deal with updating them etc)

- Create a pull request with the updated snapshots targeting the current pull request
- The developer can then merge the proposed updates after UX designer validation
- Visual regression tests will now pass on the pull request

### Show your work

> If everything went right the github action deploy the storybook to the github page of the eternal repository in a subfolder (the pull request id is used as folder name). A comment is then added to the pull request with a link to the staging environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If everything went right, the Github action deploy the storybook to the Github page of the external repository in a subfolder (the pull request id is used as folder name). A comment is then added to the pull request with a link to the staging environment.
```

> If everything went right the github action deploy the storybook to the github page of the eternal repository in a subfolder (the pull request id is used as folder name). A comment is then added to the pull request with a link to the staging environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If everything went right the github action deploys the storybook to the github page of the external repository in a subfolder (the pull request id is used as folder name). A comment with the ling to the staging environment is then automatically added to the pull request 🧙🏼‍♂️.
```

## On pull request merge

> After a pull request has been accepted and merged, we want to expose the new changes to external Akeneo products. To do so, we extract the `akeneo-design-system` subfolder from pim-community-dev to it's dedicated [external repository](https://github.com/akeneo/akeneo-design-system).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a pull request has been accepted and merged, we want to expose the new changes to external Akeneo products. To do so, we extract the `akeneo-design-system` subfolder from `pim-community-dev` to its dedicated [external repository](https://github.com/akeneo/akeneo-design-system).
```

> This workflow is located in the [.github/workflows/dsm-extract.yml](https://github.com/akeneo/pim-community-dev/blob/master/.github/workflows/dsm-extract.yml) file. We will go over the important steps of this document but if you want to dive deeper, you can read it as it's self documented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This workflow is located in the [.github/workflows/dsm-extract.yml](https://github.com/akeneo/pim-community-dev/blob/master/.github/workflows/dsm-extract.yml) file. We will go over the important steps of this document but if you want to dive deeper, you can read it as it's self-documented.
```

### Workflow

> The first two jobs are run in parallel to build the lib and bump the lib version. Once it's done, we can extract it to the external repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first two jobs run in parallel to build the lib and bump the lib version. Once it's done, we can extract it to the external repository.
```

### How do we bump the lib version

> The important part here is to understand how we bump the version: We start by getting the current version number on the package.json from the external repository. Then we get all the commit messages on the merged pull request. We analyse their commit message to decide which version level we should bump (patch, minor, major). Once it's done, we can add the package.json before extracting the `akeneo-design-system` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The important part here is to understand how we bump the version:
- We start by getting the current version number on the package.json from the external repository.
- Then we get all the commit messages on the merged pull request. We analyse their commit message to decide which version level we should bump (patch, minor, major).
- Once it's done, we can add the package.json before extracting the `akeneo-design-system` folder.
```

> The important part here is to understand how we bump the version: We start by getting the current version number on the package.json from the external repository. Then we get all the commit messages on the merged pull request. We analyse their commit message to decide which version level we should bump (patch, minor, major). Once it's done, we can add the package.json before extracting the `akeneo-design-system` folder.

Reviewer 2: I would have written this part in a bullet list rather than a paragraph ?

Author: fixed by Val ;)

## After extracting

> Once the akeneo design system has been extracted to the external repository we still need to tag it, release it and publish it. We also need to update the storybook to github pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the akeneo design system has been extracted to the external repository we still need to tag it, release it and publish it. We also need to update the Storybook to Github pages.
```

> Once the akeneo design system has been extracted to the external repository we still need to tag it, release it and publish it. We also need to update the storybook to github pages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the akeneo design system has been extracted to the external repository we still need to tag it, release it and publish it to NPM. We also need to update the storybook to github pages.
```

### Deploy storybook

> The deploy workflow is localted in the [akeneo-design-system/.github/workflows/deploy.yml](https://github.com/akeneo/pim-community-dev/blob/master/akeneo-design-system/.github/workflows/deploy.yml). It's a github action building the lib and pushing it to the gh-pages branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The deploy workflow is located in the [akeneo-design-system/.github/workflows/deploy.yml](https://github.com/akeneo/pim-community-dev/blob/master/akeneo-design-system/.github/workflows/deploy.yml) file. It's a Github action building the lib and pushing it to the `gh-pages` branch.
```

### Tag and release

> The tag and release workflow is localted in the [akeneo-design-system/.github/workflows/tag-and-publish-to-npm.yml](https://github.com/akeneo/pim-community-dev/blob/master/akeneo-design-system/.github/workflows/tag-and-publish-to-npm.yml). It's a github action commiting the tag and pushing it to master. Then it release it on gituhb and push it to the npm registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tag and release workflow is located in the [akeneo-design-system/.github/workflows/tag-and-publish-to-npm.yml](https://github.com/akeneo/pim-community-dev/blob/master/akeneo-design-system/.github/workflows/tag-and-publish-to-npm.yml) file. It's a Github action commiting the tag and pushing it to `master` and then publishes it on the npm registry.
```

> The tag and release workflow is localted in the [akeneo-design-system/.github/workflows/tag-and-publish-to-npm.yml](https://github.com/akeneo/pim-community-dev/blob/master/akeneo-design-system/.github/workflows/tag-and-publish-to-npm.yml). It's a github action commiting the tag and pushing it to master. Then it release it on gituhb and push it to the npm registry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The tag and release workflow is localted in the [akeneo-design-system/.github/workflows/tag-and-publish-to-npm.yml](https://github.com/akeneo/pim-community-dev/blob/master/akeneo-design-system/.github/workflows/tag-and-publish-to-npm.yml). It's a github action commiting the tag and pushing it to master. Then it release it on github and push it to the NPM registry.
```
The tag is push to master ? or the repository ?

Author: master :)
